[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now task 3.
Now that we've done
some stuff with jQuery,
we've gotten some things loaded up.
Task 3 then what we want to turn
our attention to is not adding new
functionality to the app but reorganizing
the way the existing functionality is.
So, if up to this point, you felt like,
you're a little bit overwhelmed
with the jQuery stuff or
maybe your stuff is not working.
I want to remind you that my best
suggestion is for you to grab the contents
of task two and just overwrite your
files with all the contents of task two.
So that you're in a clean
fresh environment cuz for
task 3, I really do think
this perhaps one of the most
important parts of all
the exercises that we've done.
Is to get our heads around how
to use organization techniques
like the module pattern
to arrange our code.
So the first task here shows us that we
have it tells us to open up these three
files and we want to use the module
pattern to expose a module for
each one of those files.
So I'm gonna do the first file, and then
I'm going to leave you maybe ten minutes
or so, for you to work on the second and
the third files.
And you'll do exactly the same thing,
so it'll be the same pattern.
But I'll show you how to do the first one,
and then I'll let you.
So [COUGH] let's work on the header.
I'll open up back up header.js.
And I'll do header, and then you can do
the carousel and the details ones, okay?
Again, we're not gonna add
any new functionality.
We're just gonna reorganize
this functionality.
So the observation that we can make
about header.js Is that all of the stuff
that we see here is happening
out in the global scope.
There's a document ready that's
happening in the global scope.
If the document ready wasn't there.
This variable would be a global variable.
That's the sort of code smell that we
want to try to avoid because there's no
organization around this at all.
It's just in its own separate file but
beyond that there's no nice clean
interface for it will could have
accidental overlap with other functions
and variables and things like that.
So we typically wanna avoid
as much as possible any kind
of stuff happening out in the global scope
which is one of the really best benefits
of the module pattern is how easy
you'll see in just a moment.
How easy it is for us to take what we
would call just sort of global blah
spaghetti code and reform it into
something that's more well defined.
That's really the main point
of the module pattern.
So I'm going to do this file and
then you take over and do the other two.
Okay the first thing that we
want [COUGH] is we're gonna want
a thing to represent our module,
a variable.
So I'm gonna call mine capital H, Header.
Now I'm going to wrap a function
around all the contents
of what's happening here as my first step.
And the interesting thing
about doing that though
Is that I've wrapped the function around
it but, that function has not run yet.
Okay, It's just a function that's wrapped.
But, if we want that function to execute.
We actually need to execute
that function expression.
Which the most common way of doing that,
we didn't go over this explicitly
it's covered in the book.
Is to put a set of
parentheses around that and
then another parentheses set on the end.
That final parentheses set down there
is the most critical part cuz that
actually executes our function.
And this pattern, by the way,
if you're doing Google searching or
looking in the book,
this is called the IIFE pattern, I-I-F-E.
IIFE stands for
immediately invoked function expression.
We're a super creative bunch in the
JavaScript world we come up with really
creative names for stuff.
It's a function expression
that we immediately invoke.
So we call it the IIFE.
Okay?
So I got an IIFE function that
wraps around and runs stuff.
Now inside of it, I don't want
this document ready stuff here.
So I'm gonna take temporarily I'm gonna
take the document ready part, and
I'm gonna move it outside of my module and
we'll come back to that in a minute, okay?
So I'll take that one and
that one, put those down here.
We'll come back to those in a little bit.
Now this code if we try to define
what is this code doing it's
essentially the initialization code for
our header module right.
So we could take function init.
Call it init and wrap a function
declaration around all of that code.
>> Kyle Simpson: Did
everybody follow that?
>> Kyle Simpson: And then we could observe
that we've got an inline function here.
Which isn't really buying anything
it's actually more complex to look at
the code that way.
So I'm gonna take that function and
not make it be a callback expression.
I'm gonna move it out and
have it be its own separate function,
which I might call headerLinkClicks,
just making up names at this point.
Okay, so, that code I'll put in here.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
this is my init function.
And I need to call, what I'd call
that function, headerLinkClicks?
That's the name I need to pass for
my callback.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now this modal variable,
you can see it's being declared inside of
init, but it's now being used
in a different function and
everybody see why that would be a problem?
It's being used inside of
the headerLinkClicks function but
it's only been declared inside of a init.
There's a simple fix.
Take the var part out and instead,
make it something that's available to
all the functions here by making it
a module level variable decoration.
Still assign it inside of here, but
now when I declare it there now it's
available to all of my inner functions.
>> Kyle Simpson: Questions on that,
do you see that how that works,
how that part works?
Now the last step is that this
module needs a public API right.
So I need to do a return
statement with an object.
And what do I
need to put on my
public API?
I need to put a reference
to that init function.
>> Kyle Simpson: Does that look familiar
from the stuff that we did about an hour
or two ago we did earlier this
afternoon after the lunch break?
We have inner stuff,
these inner functions and
inner variables and
here Is where we declare our public API.
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
the thing I want you to get, and
I'm gonna again use the trick of code
folding to make this more visible to you.
I'm gonna take that internal
code just temporarily.
I'm going to code fold it.
So you don't have to look at it and
what I want you to see here is that header
is now going to reference
that object that we returned.
Does everybody see that part?
That object that we return gets assigned
to a variable called header which means on
the outside.
What can we do?
We can call header.init, right, which is
what we wanna pass the document.ready.
We just wanna pass a reference
to the header.init function.
>> Kyle Simpson: Remember I'm
not calling init, so
I'm not putting the parentheses here.
I'm just passing a reference to the
function so that jQuery will run it later.
>> Kyle Simpson: Kevin is asking
a question versus the other way shown
earlier can you be more clear on
what other way you're talking about.
Okay.
If I save this file which I will and
I rerun my program,
I just refresh my page and verify that
my register link still works correctly.
And my login link still works correctly.
That means I didn't change
any of my functionality.
All I did was improve
the style of my code.
Lets make some observations
about the style of my code.
These functions no longer have
any potential to be public.
These functions are now hidden privately.
And the only thing that gets exposed
is this function, the init function.
We exposed that publicly, but the var
modal variable it's not exposed publicly.
It's hidden as a detail
inside of the module.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
the question in the chat room is,
[COUGH] in an earlier version today,
you might remember that I just
did something like,
>> Kyle Simpson: Function Header,
or we called it function hello earlier.
And instead of having that stuff down at
the bottom, it's just a normal function.
And you might remember that I did
something like o = Hello() from earlier.
So what I'm doing is combining
those two things into one step,
instead of declaring a function and
then calling it once.
If I only need one of it,
it's basically a singleton.
I'm just combining those two steps instead
of declaring one and then calling it.
I'm using the IIFE to declare and
call it all in one step.